TELLA IRANI SHEMIRANI 
Architectural Designer III, Assoc. AIA, LEED® Green Associate™ 
Green Card Holder, Permanent Resident of the USA 
tellairanishemirani@cmail.carleton.ca 
1201 S Prairie Ave, Unit 3105, Chicago IL, 60605 
TEL: 201 713 6214 
 
PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 
Experienced Architectural Designer with over 6 years of expertise in designing and preparing detailed 
architectural drawings across various sectors, including commercial, hospitality, education, public housing, 
and transportation. A dept in all phases of the architectural design process, from initial concept through 
construction administration, with a strong focus on new constructions, office space interior fit -outs, 
renovations, alterations, and building additions. Skilled in utilizing BIM and Revit, with a particular emphasis 
on sustainable design and project coordination. Demonstrated ability to deliver complex projects on time, 
within budget, and to the highest quality standards. 
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE                            
SYSTRA A+E                                 Jul 2022– Nov 2024 
DESIGNER III ARCHITECTURE          [New York City – USA]  
Worked in various capacities in projects ranging from commercial, educational, public housing, and 
transportation projects , including designing SYSTRA's new headquarter s office in NYC, NYC SCA school 
projects, DPMC New Facade System in F&A Building DOT Headquarters, NJT Maplewood's new construction 
of Bus Operator's Facility and Parki ng spaces, NYCHA VAN DYKE Houses Existing Roof Replacement of 22 
buildings, NYCHA Pelham Parkway Existing Roof Replacement of 23 Buildings. 
 Assisted the President/Principal architect in creating the department's strategic plan and technical 
proposals. 
 Communicated and articulated design concepts to the clients. 
 Provided design solutions, conducted functiona l programming and adjacency studies, and 
allocated all components in a schedule based on the needs of the spaces. 
 Developed project scope and design, and prepared scope reports for various projects. Participated 
in client/ project meetings. Coordinated cli ent expectations, team communication, and internal 
and external consultant coordination to ensure consistent project development toward the design 
concepts established in earlier phases. 
 Led the creation of  architectural drawings and construction documents  using Revit , ensuring 
compliance with building codes, accessibility standards (ADA), and zoning regulations. 
 Assisted project managers during the construction administration in reviewing and processing  
shop drawings and approvals of material samples in al ignment with design goals, responded to  
requests for information, and prepared as-built drawings. 
 Conducted field surveys and site visits to monitor project progress and ensure adherence to design 
specifications. 

 Worked collaboratively with office staff an d other consultants, coordinated and communicated  
throughout each step of the design process, from initial concept through construction  
administration. 
 Interpreted, organized, and coordinated project team assignments. Attended team coordination,  
and project design review presentations, and prepared client design presentation materials. 
 Coordinated client meetings and internal project teams, producing design presentations and 
alternatives to align with project goals. 
 Worked with consultants to  coordinate engineering systems relevant to projects, project  
documentation execution, and construction plans. 
 Performed quality control, and QA-QC process, ensuring quality control and completion of the  
construction documents. 
 Developed graphic and technical support on projects, and developed 3D renderings for in -house 
review and client meetings. 
 Researched, verified, and selected appropriate materials, fixtures, equipment, hardware, and  
other project-required components. Met with product vendors to decide on required products for 
the projects. 
 Participated in the pre -award meetings, going over specification divisions and BID breakdown , 
controlling the cost submitted by contractors. 
 Developed BIM execution plans and office standards. 
 Experienced in preparing computer -generated models and detailed drawings, and developing 
construction documents using Revit and BIM 360 for collaboration processes. Developed different 
global and project parameters, Revit templates, families, and design options in various Scan to BIM 
type projects. 
 Provided Revit training and support to team members. 
 
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGNER                     Sept 2021– Jul 2022 
ROCKWELL GROUP         [New York City – USA] 
 
Contributed to large -scale hospitality projects, including Jones Beach Theatre, The Fontainebleau Las Vegas 
hotel and casino, designing its theatre, nightclub, dayclub, and Greek restaurant. 
 Led design and development of architectural deliverables and construction documents using Revit 
and Rhino, ensuring compliance with zoning regulations, building codes, and ADA accessibility 
standards. 
 Coordinated architectural design and construction documents across various projects with 
internal/external teams and ran clash detection using Revit and Navisworks Manage. 
 Collaborated with design directors and project managers to resolve design issues and meet project 
objectives. 
 Coordinated client expectations, incorporating client feedback, and ensuring the final design meets 
their needs and specifications throughout the project lifecycle.  
 Developed selected options based on scopes of work and design concepts. 
 Conducted r esearch to verify appropriate technology, materials, fixtures, and equipment, 
considering their performance, environmental impacts, aesthetics, and costs. 
 Meet with vendors to decide on required products. 

 Attended all team meetings to resolve technical and projec t issues, and reviewed project schedules, 
project goals, and objectives on a timeframe basis with the project manager and design team. Resolved 
complex design issues with innovative and practical solutions. 
 Performed building code regulations research and ADA requirements, and applied all the requirements 
to the project as needed. 
 
OSFI BSIF (Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions)                      March 2020 – Aug 2021 
DESIGNER / PROJECT COORDINATOR                       [Toronto – Canada] 
 
Led design efforts for major renovation and completed interior fit-out of OSFI office spaces , including eleven 
offices in Toronto, one office in Montreal, and two offices in Vancouver.  
 
 Participated in meetings with clients and govern ment planning groups, conducted  holistic pre- and 
post-occupancy studies, researched  at the need analysis stage of design , identified the nec essary 
workstreams, and interviewed the workstream leaders to identify space utilization. 
 Participated in the design and development of proposals, conducted space planning provided a variety 
of options for new space layouts by working directly with clients, and government planning groups,  
and identified sources of needs from staff that would be using the space  to accommodate all the 
functional, spatial, and occupancy, considering all space allocations, divisions, arrangement, 
organization. 
 Provided design solutions, conducted functional programming and adjacency studies, and allocated all 
components in a schedule based on the needs of the spaces. 
 Provided interior functional programs, using different approaches, including Activity-Based Workplace 
Design, Biophilic Workplace Design, and GC workplace Design strategies. 
 Developed BIM modeling of interior spaces, and created 3d models, renderings, and video animations 
using Revit, and Enscape. 
 Developed construction documents and details,  and prepared  client presentation packages, using 
Revit, Enscape, Rhino, AutoCAD, and Adobe Creative Suite software.  
 Conducted product research and specifications, and coordinated  with group leaders on selecting 
materials and reviewing design work. 
 Researched building code regulations. Applied space planning and design solutions utilizing codes and 
vision to achieve a final integrated design. 
 
DIALOG                                   Jan 2019 - Feb 2020 
DESIGNER                [Toronto – Canada] 
 
Contributed to the development of new construction and interior fit-out of large-scale commercial projects in 
Toronto, including ESDC Service Canada (Employment and Social Development Canada), Canada Revenue 
Agency, Canada Border Services Agency, The Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada as well as Lester B. 
Pearson Building in Ottawa. 
 
 Experienced with different phase s of the design process, including but not limited to programming, 
schematic design, design development, construction documentation, and construction administration. 

 Worked closely with senior architects to provide support in design development and technic al tasks, 
assisted alongside seniors with the preparation of proposed layouts. 
 Conducted site assessment and provided a site survey of existing and as -built conditions on sites to 
draft and analyze drawings and solve technical issues of design associated w ith existing sites and 
buildings. 
 Conducted zoning Analysis and provided related diagrams. 
 Conducted space planning, considering clients' requirements, needs, and wants. 
 Prepared and modified construction documents, interior architectural details, and sketches. 
 Created digital models and renderings for client meetings and community presentations. Utilized 
multiple design software packages to prepare  architectural drawings and presentation materials, 
including 2D drawings and 3D models, using Revit, Rhino, Grasshopper, and AutoCAD. 
 Developed BIM modeling of interior spaces, created 3d models, photo -realistic renderings, and walk-
through video animations, using Revit, Rhino, Grasshopper, Lumion, and Enscape. 
 Attended client meetings to cultivate relationships, obtain planning information, and present finished 
selections. 
 Coordinated technical activities with employees in other disciplines and  other departments 
participating in the assigned project. Used 3D coordination techniques to coord inate in -house 
disciplines’ drawings and specifications (Str, Mech, Elec) with the project team, performing clash 
detection, using Revit and Navisworks Manage software. This expertise allowed for early identification 
of system conflicts before construction , resulting in improving schedule, and reducing costs for the 
firm. 
 Identified and solved technical problems and ensured the flow of information within the project team.  
 Was responsible for implementing design details such as furniture, lighting, and architectural elements. 
 Experienced in architectural drafting & detailing of the interior architectural millwork design for the 
projects, creating specific features for the wood-based interior finishes. 
 Conducted product research and specifications, reviewed proposals, and selected furniture and 
finishes. Select Interior materials and finishes. Compose mood boards with relevant images and 
materials. 
 Performed building code research and applicable zoning regulations to apply to develop working 
documents (CD). 
 Prepared material finish boards and presentation drawings for several projects for client review. 
 
OSFI BSIF (Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions)                          July 2018 – Dec 2018 
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGNER / PROJECT COORDINATOR                        [Ottawa – Canada] 
 
Led design efforts for major renovation and completed interior fit-out of OSFI office spaces including fourteen 
offices in Ottawa. 
 Conducted holistic pre- and post-occupancy studies. Lead research activities at the need analysis stage 
of design projects, including identifying the necessary workstreams, interviewing the workstream 
leaders, an d identifying space utilization, using all information to provide different space planning 
options for different offices. 
 Conducted surveys, gathering all information needed for the projects.  

 Recognized the need for new design approaches in developing proposals for new space layouts and 
introduced different design strategies, including Activity -Based Workplace Design and GC Workplace 
Design.  
 Provided design documentation in the form of graphic illustrations, imagery boards, and color 
renderings. 
 Conducted on-site observations and provided recommendations to help streamline ongoing design 
projects. 
 Researched key concepts and materials to support design solutions influencing concept development. 
 Conducted product research and specifications, selected furniture, and finishes. 
 
EDUCATION                         
MASTER OF ARCHITECTURE                                        Sept 2014 - Apr 2017 
CARLETON UNIVERSITY                  [Ottawa – Canada]  
        
Thesis Title: “Interactive Facade” 
Recipient of the John Adjaeleian Scholarship 
Awarded for the research, manufacturing, and prototyping of a robot, representing an intelligent building skin 
[as an investigative process] which contributed to the understanding of building structures at the level of the 
building envelope. 
 
BACHELOR OF INTERIOR DESIGN                Sept 2006 - Apr 2010 
UNIVERSITY OF TEHRAN            [Tehran - Iran] 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND CERTIFICATIONS 
  
OSHA 30: Construction Industry Outreach Training Certification                      May 2024 
 LEED® Green Associate™ Credential                                              July   2021 
 Canadian Architectural Certification Board (CACB)                                Aug   2017 
 Recipient of the John Adjaeleian Scholarship                                 April  2017 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SOFTWARE PROFICIENCY 
 
  Revit 2024 
 Navisworks Manage 
 AutoCAD  
Rhino 8 
Grasshopper (Parametric Design)  
Dynamo 
3ds Max 
Bentley MicroStation Connect 
Bentley OpenBuildings Designer 
SketchUp  
Lumion 
Enscape 
V-Ray 
Photoshop 
Illustrator 
InDesign 
Aftereffects 
 Morpholio Trace 
 Bluebeam 
 
 
REFERENCES:  
 
Genaro Salierno      Jose A. Paz 
President / Principal Architect     Vice President / Program Manager 
gsalierno@systra.com      jpaz@systra.com 
Tel: 973.435.2087 (Direct)     Tel: 646 943 6776 (Direct) 
973.618.2198 (Cell)      212 494 9111 (Main) 
       908 323 9771 (Cell) 
 
 
Tana Hovland      Amy Wong  
Director        Architect/Project Manager 
Rockwell Group, New York, U.S.    Rockwell Group, New York, U.S. 
Thovland@rockwellgroup.com     awong@rockwellgroup.com 
Tel: 410-829-7659      Tel: 917-981-9081 
 
 
Carlo Lewis       Walter Woodacre   
Project Manager      Senior Manager  
Sizemore Group      Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions  
carlol@sizemoregroup.com     walter.woodacre@osfi-bsif.gc.ca 
O: 404.605.0690 | D: 404.328.2050    Tel: 343-202-2976 
     
 
 
 